[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Throughout the planet,
mysterious megalithic
structures, tunnel systems, and
monuments lay in various states
of ruin.
Most of them appear to
have been constructed to be
aligned with the ancient sky.
From Turkey to South America,
several of these relics
are thought to be
clues to a time
before the legendary
destruction of Atlantis
roughly 11,600 years ago.
These megalithic
wonders appear to have
been built to survive
the great cataclysms that
are woven throughout mythology.
Regardless of the
legend, there's
a tale of a time when
Earth's ancestors began
preparing for what was coming.
>> So when we talk about
the kind of catastrophe
on the magnitude and the
scale that we're talking about
in the Younger Dryas, and we
talk about the civilizations
that existed during
that period of time,
if they were not immediately
impacted by the event itself,
they would have been impacted
by the aftermath of the event.
How would they have responded?
I think we see evidence of that
in civilizations and cultures
that tried to preserve what
it is they had created.
They buried what
they had created.
And we see evidence of
this in South America.
We see it in Caral in Peru.
And very, very
specifically, we see it
in Gobekli Tepe, where
we see the evidence
of the circular temples buried
intentionally under the earth.
This wasn't natural erosion
that covered these temples.
There was human
intervention that
covered these intentionally.
We can only speculate the reason
because they left no written
records.
Very possibly, they
covered to preserve
what they had created
for future generations
so that we can see
them as we do today.
>> Experts have studied the
site and they believe that
the amount of time that was
taken to bury and protect
the site after it was created
may have taken just as much
time as it did to
create the structure.
Showing us that that site was
incredibly important to those
civilizations to protect it.
And that they knew that
something was coming that they
needed to protect the site.
>> But whoever
built Gobekli Tepe,
the fact that they buried
that very important 30 acres
of these rings of all of
these limestone columns meant
somebody knew that something
potentially destructive
to the whole planet, and
they didn't want Gobekli Tepe
destroyed.
But Gobekli Tepe survived.
>> When you look at Gobekli
Tepe and the earliest carbon-14
dating for Enclosure D,
which is the most important,
focuses on the arc made by
the first rising of the belt
of Orion 10,450 BC, Saint-Denis
construction as the Assyrian,
and many other places
around the world.
So these things
preceded the event.
So they were already
building, they already
come from somewhere else,
like the Egyptian said,
the homelands of the gods were
already partially destroyed.
So that puts us at the
beginning of the Younger Dryas.
And so they're
setting out in boats
with all of their
astrologers and astronomers,
trying to figure out whether
can they live because they've
already seen ahead.
They know this is
going to happen again
and they're going to have
about 800 years of time
to get their act together.
They're going out
and stretching out
across the face of the Earth.
They're trying to think forward.
They're trying to build
for the next catastrophe
and they're going to
build big because they
know that one when
it happens, it's
going to obliterate everything.
And that accounts for the
megalithic use of stone.
I mean, why not make
it easy for yourself.
Get a rock that big.
No, we'll use one
1,800 tons in weight
like in Baalbek, which
nothing on Earth can lift.
Now why would you do that?
A, because you can.
And two, because you
want to make sure
it's not going to go anywhere.
So you put all of
these ideas together,
it becomes very obvious
that they were already
building to prevent and overcome
a future cataclysm which
was already 800 years
into the future.
>> Another tale from the time
when humanity was preparing
for cataclysm comes from
the Hopi in northern Arizona
in the western United States.
Alternative
researchers have long
speculated that the legendary
ant people were likely
a group of beings that had all
intentions of helping humanity.
The depictions of the ant
people add a deeper mystery
to their connection
with the legendary myths
from around the planet, where
a group of sages or wise ones
helped humanity
through the dark times.
>> The Hopi talk about
a series of worlds.
The first world was
destroyed by fire.
The second world was
destroyed by ice.
And both of these
situations, they
followed a mysterious cloud
during the day and a moving
star at night
until they were led
to their chief god
who introduced them
to the ant people.
>> The ant people then take the
Hopi into underground caverns
and teach them
how to grow beans,
how to survive through
these cataclysms.
And then ultimately, they're
led out of the underground world
into the surface
world once again.
When you look at
this, you think, well,
who are these ant people?
Do they literally
look like ants?
There's no suggestion of that.
In fact, in descriptions or
depictions of them in rock art,
they're portrayed more
like Egyptian high priests.
And you ask, well, who could
these high priests possibly be?
Could they-- might possibly
have been the Atlanteans,
the survivors that are
teaching the Hopi how
to enter into a period of stasis
to survive these cataclysms?
Or if not, who were
the ant people?
>> How many of the great flood
stories are prefaced by some
favored individual being
pre-informed of the impending
event over and over again?
Well, then that raises
the question of, well,
who would that have been?
I look at the myths, and one
of the most widespread myths
from all of these cultures is
the myth of the Great Flood.
Well, my geological
research tells me
that the great floods were real.
Now, if we go from
the thought that
behind many of these
myths of gigantic floods
are very real events, then what
is the potential real reality
behind the stories
of the gods that all
of these ancient cultures have?
Now, what happens there
is most people immediately
want to go to aliens.
And I'm not dismissing
the idea of aliens.
But instead of immediately
jumping to aliens,
let us consider the possibility
that you might have had,
in ancient times, cultures
existing side by side
that were, on the
one hand, primitive,
but on the other hand, very
sophisticated and advanced.
This advanced culture now
knows that something's
about to happen.
So it's basically
trying to disseminate
that knowledge and
that information
to as many people as possible.
Hey, there's going to
be something coming.
There's going to be
a gigantic flood.
Why don't you consider
building a big boat?
Maybe out of reeds or going
underground with the ant people
or whatever the case may be.
Because over and
over and over again,
we find that theme replicated
in these ancient stories.
So I think just like
now we can consider
the great floods were
real, historically real,
then who were these gods?
It may have been us.
>> Throughout mythology, there
are countless deities devoted
to the sun.
Ancient practices that center
around solstices and equinoxes
are embedded in cultures
around the planet.
This divine provider of life
has been an all-seeing eye
throughout Earth's evolution.
What happens when we look
deeper into the heart
of our solar system
to understand
the increase of
catastrophic events
at the end of the Younger Dryas?
>> I am convinced that the
Younger Dryas is bracketed
by solar outbursts.
What I believe all the evidence
indicates is that at 9,700 BC,
there was another
major solar outburst.
At that point, though, there are
not these huge glacial lakes,
et cetera.
And that major solar outburst
has the opposite effect
on the climate.
It drives the climate
into a warming period.
Because when you have
this major solar outburst
at the end of the last Ice
Age, huge thunderbolts are not
atmospheric thunder,
they're coming from the sun
and they would literally touch
down, melt ice when it hits it.
You have incredible flooding
on the surface of the Earth.
You have increased
earthquake activity.
volcanic activity.
You have a rising sea levels.
It would cause, in
some cases, wildfires.
Then there's
another twist to it,
which is when you have a major
solar outburst, in some cases,
it's now known from other stars
similar to our star, which we
know is the sun, that you can
have not only plasma thrown
off, but also essentially
particulate matter
that can congeal and
form physical impactors.
So it starts to get to the
point where one and the other
are not so
diametrically opposed,
where evidence for
some kind of impactor,
evidence for a solar
outburst, they overlap.
Still, I am 100% convinced that
all of the evidence looking
at it in its totality points
to major solar outbursts,
particularly at 9,700 BCE, at
the end of the last Ice Age.
>> When we look at the melting
of the great ice sheet complex,
yes, we see melting
from the snout.
But we also see melting
epicenters hundreds
of not even like 1,000 miles
up removed from the snout.
If you think of the
ice sheet coming,
encroaching upon northern United
States, which it did, and we
know now that the northern
United States is warmer
than Canada, go
closer to the poles,
the temperature gets
colder and colder.
During the peak of
the Ice Age, you
had ice that might have been
2 miles thick over the region
of central Canada,
Hudson Bay, that
reached all the way
to the Atlantic Ocean
and beyond the present
coastline all the way
to the Pacific Ocean, and
from the northern United
States up to the Arctic Circle.
That's a whole lot of ice
you got to get rid of.
Now, did it shrink back
uniformly from the edges?
No, it didn't.
But what you do would expect
is that it should shrink back
at an average rate on
the southern margin
faster than on the
northern margin.
That didn't happen.
It's like all over the ice
sheet, it began to melt.
And there were
melting epicenters
that you can actually now
study maps or even go there,
and you'll see that
there are landforms
consistent with a tremendous
radial outrush of waters
from these melting epicenters.
Now, that doesn't
really make sense
within the normal models
of glacier recession.
Something else was
going on there.
And to me, the most
consistent explanation
would be hypervelocity impacts
directly into the ice sheet.
>> Virtually overnight, global
temperatures go from cold Ice
Age conditions to essentially
modern warm conditions.
When you put huge amounts of
moisture into the atmosphere,
it can only hold
so much so long.
And it has to come out, and
we see incredible rains.
At the end of the
last Ice Age, we
have evidence of this
geologically, so flash
flooding.
So a lot of this
flooding, I am convinced
is not just rising sea levels
but flooding on the surface
from incredible rainstorms,
incredible thunderstorms
in a sense.
So it was really
a dramatic time.
And this ties right in with my
work on the Great Sphinx, which
I first began in 1990.
One of the first
things I observed
as a PhD geologist
and geophysicist
was that the weathering
on the body of the Sphinx
and the walls of the Sphinx
enclosure, that weathering
and erosion is not
by wind and sand.
It is not what you
expect in a desert,
it's what you expect from
fairly significant rainfall
over a considerable
period of time.
You have what I refer to
as a rolling, undulating,
weathering, and erosion profile.
You have vertical
fissures that would
be caused by water runoff,
running down, and finding areas
that are relatively
weak, and then it
carves it out as fissures.
And you can see this very
clearly as a geologist
when you look at the walls
of the Sphinx enclosure.
The receding back more
towards the top of the section
than the bottom of the section.
There have been Nile floods
coming in, for instance,
consistently.
You would get much
more undercutting
of the softer layers which
occur toward the base.
So it's not Nile flooding.
It is definitely rainfall.
And I believe that that
rainfall was initiated
at the end of the last
Ice Age, circa 9,700 BCE,
because we know that there
were tremendous rains
and tremendous runoff
at that time period.
So it starts to all fit
absolutely together.
>> It was such a dramatic
change that most people have no
comprehension of what
we're talking about here.
A series of solar outbursts,
coronal mass ejections,
impacts, tremendous storms,
fires, gigantic earthquakes,
extraordinarily erosive
floods, and volcanic eruptions.
It was a complete alteration.
The whole natural
history of this planet
that occurred at the end
of the Younger Dryas.
And really, launched
the Holocene,
which is our modern epoch where
our modern civilization has
arisen out of the debris of that
former world that got utterly
obliterated in the process.
>> Could the extreme events
throughout the Younger Dryas
period have been powerful
enough to drastically shift
Earth's axis?
According to mainstream science,
Earth's current axial tilt
is roughly 23.5 degrees.
The axial tilt
determines the seasons,
and water distribution
around the planet
can drastically affect the axis.
A recent study revealed that
humans pumping groundwater
shifted the axis of the Earth.
If a watery planet exploded
in our solar system,
and the sun responded with an
extreme solar proton event,
melting an incomprehensible
amount of ice
from the Earth's
polar region, and then
the Earth was pelted by
a massive fragmenting icy
comet as well as a large
amount of water and debris
from the exploded
planet, how quickly
would the Earth move
to reestablish balance
with the new water weight
and shift to its current axis
of roughly 23.5 degrees?
In the 1950s,
professor and author
Hans Schindler Bellamy
co-authored a book named
"The Calendar of Tiahuanaco."
This controversial book claims
that the sun gate of Tiahuanaco
in Bolivia is a calendar for
more than 12,000 years ago.
And that this calendar differs
from our present day calendar
because the Earth had
a different axial tilt.
Could an abrupt axis
shift thousands of years
ago have increased the power
of the ever-growing oceans
and caused more
fault lines to quake
and create massive tsunamis?
Evidence from Siberia
deepens the mystery
of how quickly climates changed
during this chaotic time that
defies comprehension.
>> In order to understand
the significance of these
Earth's catastrophes during
the Younger Dryas period,
we have to go back to the late
1800s and early 1900s to a man
named Edward Toll, who was the
first expedition to ever go up
into northern Siberia to study
the megafauna that had gone
extinct in the Earth's climate.
Edward Toll described
in his journals
as finding a 30-foot alder
tree hundreds of miles
north into the Siberian tundra.
This brought up
several questions
from scientists such
as why a 30-foot alder
tree was growing hundreds of
miles north into the Arctic
Circle where it shouldn't be.
Secondly, how could a
tree with green leaves
be found flash frozen
in this type of state?
Edward Toll found answers
when he was searching around
the area of new Siberian
islands with finding
hundreds of frozen mammoths.
The most famous eventually
being discovered
called the Berezovka
mammoth, which
is famous because the
mammoth was preserved almost
in its entirety.
>> When we look at the story
of what Toll said he found with
this tree along
with the mammoths,
it becomes apparent to us that
this was a cataclysmic type
freezing, like an
instant freezing.
It wasn't something
that happened
over a long period of time.
When they found
the mammoths, they
would find grass in their
mouths with the molar print
still on the grass, indicating
that this was fresh grass,
this was a fresh instance, and
this happened just literally
like a lightning, this freezing.
>> There was a period of time
when it was pretty much hell
on Earth.
When you think about it, half
of the great megafaunal species
of the planet disappeared
in a geological eye blink.
So when you make a list
of the animals that
didn't make it across
the Younger Dryas,
it's a huge list.
>> The evidence for
cosmic impacts and sort
of the catastrophic nature
of the Younger Dryas
and the megafaunal extinction
isn't purely limited to just
the bones that we find in
the species extinction.
There happen to be some
examples of just what seemed
to be things like
mammoths that were caught
in just tremendous blast waves.
So this is a good
example of what
might have happened if
some of these megafauna
were exposed to things
like cosmic airbursts.
There are burial
sites today where
you've got rearranged
skeletons of mammoths
where their feet
were embedded in mud,
and their leg bones
were literally
snapped off at the top,
and their hip bones
are up around their skulls.
And just the force it requires
to snap an elephant femur
would be tremendous.
But there are also
a number of caves
where we've got
megafaunal species, just
cave bears and saber-toothed
tigers and mammoths all
jumbled together along with
busted up wood and trees
as if a blast wave had
just scoured the Earth
and smashed everything together.
There is a lot of evidence
for a catastrophic end to some
of these species.
>> Could the Earth's axis have
changed so abruptly that new
Arctic zones were
created in an instant?
Could this axis shift
have caused land masses
to abruptly sink?
The ancient legends
claim that Atlantis
was destroyed very quickly.
A deeper look at the
mid-Atlantic ridge
provides a geological
understanding
of what could happen if
Mother Earth was quickly
thrown off-balance.
>> There is very striking
empirical evidence that
the ocean bottom, particularly
along the mid-Atlantic ridge,
subsided.
There is a plateau,
called the Azores Plateau,
it's about the size of Iceland.
And it flanks the
mid-Atlantic ridge.
And in fact, it sits at what's
called a triple plate junction.
You have the African
plate, the Eurasian plate,
and the North American plate all
meet right there at the Azores.
And where they meet, I think
that's a natural hinge point
and there are cross-transecting
the mid-Atlantic ridge
at right angles are what
are called transform faults.
And those transform
faults could be
seen as the natural consequence
of this movement of the Earth's
crust.
One of the consequences of
that would be this changing,
shifting landmasses.
So if you look at what are
called the bathymetric charts,
the charts of the ocean
bottom of the Atlantic,
you will see what is
called the Azores Plateau.
What are now the Azores islands
are mountains on that plateau.
Those islands are literally
the peaks of mountains.
And if we go back to
the Ice Age and we
factor in both the isostatic
movement of the ocean
bottom and the sea level bottom,
it becomes very plausible
that the plateau could have
been above water at the time.
>> Could the readings from
Edgar Cayce and the stories told
by Plato be pointing us
to this volatile area
of the mid-Atlantic ridge?
Could this be the location
of the legendary center
of Atlantis beyond the
Pillars of Hercules
that was destroyed when
the Earth transitioned out
of the Younger Dryas and
rapidly shifted to its new axis
around 11,600 years ago?
As science searches
for answers of how
this anomalous geological
time period ended,
there are two prevailing
themes that keep recurring.
During the Younger Dryas,
all cycles and patterns
were drastically
altered and water
is the prevailing
element that is
woven throughout
these legendary tales.
>> I think the evidence for
flooding is incontrovertible.
Even mainstream science now
admits the age of reason
and the Age of Enlightenment, it
was the development of science
was an attempt to get away from
the catastrophism of religion.
And this gave rise to
concepts like gradualism
and uniformitarianism, and
particularly with geology
for like 60, 70 years, it was
a stated goal of that science
to explain everything
we see based
on the gradual
processes of erosion
and gentle change that we
can observe everywhere.
That's now started to be,
I think, a bit corrected.
Like some of this catastrophism
is coming back in.
Even now, the
mainstream science has
accepted that, yes, the
end of the last Ice Age
gave rise to these just
catastrophic flood events.
It's incontrovertible that
there were cataclysmic floods
during that period.
>> We're coming out of a century
or more of models of Earth
change and Earth history
that are very gradualistic.
So the assumption
is that a cave would
have been produced over
hundreds of thousands,
even millions of years, one drop
of water at a time scenario.
Well, that has been on its
way out since the early 1980s.
With the discovery of
the dinosaur killer,
it opened up the possibility
that maybe, well,
maybe we need to consider that
catastrophic episodes really
do happen.
That doesn't mean that the
gradualistic processes aren't
working, but one catastrophe
in a matter of a year
can do more work than
tens of thousands
of years of gradualistic change.
>> When we look at the evidence
from a scientific perspective,
what we have to say is that
whatever happened to melt
the ice in the time of the
Younger Dryas so quickly,
some event, an
extraordinary event--
if it were happening
today in the modern world,
we would call it a
black swan event,
something that created such a
powerful effect on the Earth
that the human population by
some estimates was decimated
down to only a few hundred
thousand from what it was
at that time, that it forced
human migrations in ways that
we had never seen before
as the sea levels rose.
So they became
isolated populations
that began to rebuild or
repopulate and regrow,
developing the technologies
that they had in their memory
from when there was
a common connection.
And I think this is
one of the reasons why
we see such continuity
of human knowledge
that range all the way from
the architecture that allows
the building of pyramidal
structures using
megalithic stone blocks,
no mortar, high tolerances
between those blocks.
Certainly, the
mathematics that allows
for that kind of construction,
the cosmology that
tells us about our relationship
to the sun when the growing
seasons end, when they begin.
Our relationship to
very key star systems
that seem to be uniform
throughout these civilizations
and we have to ask ourselves,
how could this be possible
unless there was a time
that there was communication
between those civilizations.
And if there was
that time, it would
have been before the
time of this catastrophe.
And what we're seeing
are the remnants
of that catastrophe and the
civilizations rebuilding
to become the world
that we know today.
>> The origins of our most
cherished ancient myths that
encapsulated the strength
and bravery of our ancient
ancestors now has science to
provide a potential time frame
where humanity rose to great
technological and spiritual
heights and defied the laws
of nature before a sequence
of catastrophes
ravaged this planet.
There is little doubt that
the previous world nearly
ended with the Younger Dryas.
But the question remains,
how drastically did the fires
and floods change the
face of the planet
and redirect the course
of human evolution?
[MUSIC PLAYING]